and it came to pass in those days when
and it came to pass in those days when there was no king in Israel that there
there was no king in Israel that there
there was no king in Israel that there was a certain Levite staying in the
was a certain Levite staying in the
was a certain Levite staying in the remote mountains of Ephraim he took for
remote mountains of Ephraim he took for
remote mountains of Ephraim he took for himself a concubine from Bethlehem in
himself a concubine from Bethlehem in
himself a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah but his concubine played the
Judah but his concubine played the
Judah but his concubine played the harlot against him and went away from
harlot against him and went away from
harlot against him and went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem
him to her father's house at Bethlehem
him to her father's house at Bethlehem in Judah and was there for whole months
in Judah and was there for whole months
in Judah and was there for whole months then her husband arose and went after
then her husband arose and went after
then her husband arose and went after her
her
her to speak kindly to her and bring her
to speak kindly to her and bring her
to speak kindly to her and bring her back having his servant and a couple of
back having his servant and a couple of
back having his servant and a couple of donkeys with him so she brought him into
donkeys with him so she brought him into
donkeys with him so she brought him into her father's house and when the father
her father's house and when the father
her father's house and when the father of the young woman saw him he was glad
of the young woman saw him he was glad
of the young woman saw him he was glad to meet him now his father-in-law the
to meet him now his father-in-law the
to meet him now his father-in-law the young woman's father detained him and he
young woman's father detained him and he
young woman's father detained him and he stayed within three days so they ate and
stayed within three days so they ate and
stayed within three days so they ate and drank and lodged there then it came to
drank and lodged there then it came to
drank and lodged there then it came to pass on the fourth day that they arose
pass on the fourth day that they arose
pass on the fourth day that they arose early in the morning and he stood to
early in the morning and he stood to
early in the morning and he stood to depart but the young woman's father said
depart but the young woman's father said
depart but the young woman's father said to his son-in-law refresh your heart
to his son-in-law refresh your heart
to his son-in-law refresh your heart with a morsel of bread and afterward go
with a morsel of bread and afterward go
with a morsel of bread and afterward go your way
[Music]
[Music] surveys sat down and the two of them ate
surveys sat down and the two of them ate
surveys sat down and the two of them ate and drank together then the young
and drank together then the young
and drank together then the young woman's father said to the man please be
woman's father said to the man please be
woman's father said to the man please be content to stay all night and let your
content to stay all night and let your
content to stay all night and let your heart be merry and when the man stood to
heart be merry and when the man stood to
heart be merry and when the man stood to depart his father-in-law urged him so he
depart his father-in-law urged him so he
depart his father-in-law urged him so he launched there again then he arose early
launched there again then he arose early
launched there again then he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to
in the morning on the fifth day to
in the morning on the fifth day to depart but the young woman's father said
depart but the young woman's father said
depart but the young woman's father said please refresh your heart so they
please refresh your heart so they
please refresh your heart so they delayed until after noon and both of
delayed until after noon and both of
delayed until after noon and both of them ate and when the young man stood to
them ate and when the young man stood to
them ate and when the young man stood to depart
depart
depart he and his concubine and his servant his
he and his concubine and his servant his
he and his concubine and his servant his father-in-law the young woman's father
father-in-law the young woman's father
father-in-law the young woman's father said to him look the day is now drawing
said to him look the day is now drawing
said to him look the day is now drawing toward evening please spend the night
toward evening please spend the night
toward evening please spend the night see the day is coming to an end
see the day is coming to an end
see the day is coming to an end Lodge here and your heart may be married
Lodge here and your heart may be married
Lodge here and your heart may be married tomorrow go your way early so that you
tomorrow go your way early so that you
tomorrow go your way early so that you may get home however the man was not
may get home however the man was not
may get home however the man was not willing to spend that night so he rose
willing to spend that night so he rose
willing to spend that night so he rose and departed and came to opposite Jebus
and departed and came to opposite Jebus
and departed and came to opposite Jebus that is Jerusalem with him were the two
that is Jerusalem with him were the two
that is Jerusalem with him were the two saddled donkeys his concubine was also
saddled donkeys his concubine was also
saddled donkeys his concubine was also with him they were near jiva's and the
with him they were near jiva's and the
with him they were near jiva's and the day was far spent and the servants said
day was far spent and the servants said
day was far spent and the servants said to his master come please and let us
to his master come please and let us
to his master come please and let us turn aside into the city of the
turn aside into the city of the
turn aside into the city of the Jebusites and lodge in it but his master
Jebusites and lodge in it but his master
Jebusites and lodge in it but his master said to him we will not turn aside here
said to him we will not turn aside here
said to him we will not turn aside here into a city of foreigners or not of the
into a city of foreigners or not of the
into a city of foreigners or not of the children of Israel we will go on to
children of Israel we will go on to
children of Israel we will go on to Gibeah come let us draw near to one of
Gibeah come let us draw near to one of
Gibeah come let us draw near to one of these places and spend the night in
these places and spend the night in
these places and spend the night in Gibeah or in Ramah and they passed by
Gibeah or in Ramah and they passed by
Gibeah or in Ramah and they passed by and went their way and the Sun went down
and went their way and the Sun went down
and went their way and the Sun went down on them near Gibeah which belongs to
on them near Gibeah which belongs to
on them near Gibeah which belongs to Benjamin
Benjamin
Benjamin they turned aside there to go in to
they turned aside there to go in to
they turned aside there to go in to lodge in Gibeah and when he went in he
lodge in Gibeah and when he went in he
lodge in Gibeah and when he went in he sat down in the open square of the city
sat down in the open square of the city
sat down in the open square of the city for no one would take them into his
for no one would take them into his
for no one would take them into his house to spend the night just then an
house to spend the night just then an
house to spend the night just then an old man came in from his work in the
old man came in from his work in the
old man came in from his work in the field of evening who also was from the
field of evening who also was from the
field of evening who also was from the mountains of Ephraim he was staying in
mountains of Ephraim he was staying in
mountains of Ephraim he was staying in Gibeah whereas the men of the place were
Gibeah whereas the men of the place were
Gibeah whereas the men of the place were Benjamites and when he raised his eyes
Benjamites and when he raised his eyes
Benjamites and when he raised his eyes he saw the traveler in the open square
he saw the traveler in the open square
he saw the traveler in the open square of the city and the old man said where
of the city and the old man said where
of the city and the old man said where are you going and where do you come from
are you going and where do you come from
are you going and where do you come from we are passing from Bethlehem and Judah
we are passing from Bethlehem and Judah
we are passing from Bethlehem and Judah toward the remote mountains of Ephraim I
toward the remote mountains of Ephraim I
toward the remote mountains of Ephraim I am from there I went to Bethlehem and
am from there I went to Bethlehem and
am from there I went to Bethlehem and Judah now I am going to the house of the
Judah now I am going to the house of the
Judah now I am going to the house of the Lord but there is no one who will take
Lord but there is no one who will take
Lord but there is no one who will take me into his house although we have both
me into his house although we have both
me into his house although we have both straw and fodder for our donkeys and
straw and fodder for our donkeys and
straw and fodder for our donkeys and bread and wine for myself for your
bread and wine for myself for your
bread and wine for myself for your female servant and for the young man who
female servant and for the young man who
female servant and for the young man who was with your servants there's no lack
was with your servants there's no lack
was with your servants there's no lack of anything peace be with you
of anything peace be with you
of anything peace be with you however let all your needs be my
however let all your needs be my
however let all your needs be my responsibility only do not spend the
responsibility only do not spend the
responsibility only do not spend the night in the open square
[Music]
[Music] so he brought him into his house and
so he brought him into his house and
so he brought him into his house and gave fodder to the donkeys and they
gave fodder to the donkeys and they
gave fodder to the donkeys and they washed their feet and ate and drank as
washed their feet and ate and drank as
washed their feet and ate and drank as they were enjoying themselves suddenly
they were enjoying themselves suddenly
they were enjoying themselves suddenly certain men of the city perverted men
certain men of the city perverted men
certain men of the city perverted men surrounded the house and beat on the
surrounded the house and beat on the
surrounded the house and beat on the door spoke to the master
bring out the man who came to your house
bring out the man who came to your house that we may know him carnal but the man
that we may know him carnal but the man
that we may know him carnal but the man the master perhaps went out to them and
the master perhaps went out to them and
the master perhaps went out to them and said to them no my brethren I beg you do
said to them no my brethren I beg you do
said to them no my brethren I beg you do not act so wickedly seeing this man has
not act so wickedly seeing this man has
not act so wickedly seeing this man has come into my house do not commit this
come into my house do not commit this
come into my house do not commit this outrage look here is my virgin daughter
outrage look here is my virgin daughter
outrage look here is my virgin daughter and the man's concubine
and the man's concubine
and the man's concubine let me bring them out now humble them
let me bring them out now humble them
let me bring them out now humble them and do with them as you please but to
and do with them as you please but to
and do with them as you please but to this man do not do such a vile thing but
this man do not do such a vile thing but
this man do not do such a vile thing but the men would not heed him so the man
the men would not heed him so the man
the men would not heed him so the man took his concubine and brought her out
took his concubine and brought her out
took his concubine and brought her out to them
to them
to them and they knew her and abused her all
and they knew her and abused her all
and they knew her and abused her all night until morning and when the day
night until morning and when the day
night until morning and when the day began to break they let her go then the
began to break they let her go then the
began to break they let her go then the woman came as the day was dawning and
woman came as the day was dawning and
woman came as the day was dawning and fell down at the door of the man's house
fell down at the door of the man's house
fell down at the door of the man's house where her master was till it was left
where her master was till it was left
where her master was till it was left when her master arose in the morning and
when her master arose in the morning and
when her master arose in the morning and opened the doors of the house and went
opened the doors of the house and went
opened the doors of the house and went out to go his way there was his
out to go his way there was his
out to go his way there was his concubine fallen at the door of the
concubine fallen at the door of the
concubine fallen at the door of the house with their hands on the threshold
house with their hands on the threshold
house with their hands on the threshold and he said to her get up and let us be
and he said to her get up and let us be
and he said to her get up and let us be going but there was no answer
and went to his face when he entered his
and went to his face when he entered his house he took a knife laid hold of his
house he took a knife laid hold of his
house he took a knife laid hold of his concubine and divided her into 12 pieces
concubine and divided her into 12 pieces
concubine and divided her into 12 pieces limb by limb and sent her throughout all
limb by limb and sent her throughout all
limb by limb and sent her throughout all the territory of Israel and so it was
the territory of Israel and so it was
the territory of Israel and so it was that all who saw it said no such deed
that all who saw it said no such deed
that all who saw it said no such deed has been done or seen from the day that
has been done or seen from the day that
has been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up from the
the children of Israel came up from the
the children of Israel came up from the land of Egypt until this day
land of Egypt until this day
land of Egypt until this day consider it confer and speak up